Brutal Base texture pack

Thank you for downloading the Brutal Base texture pack. This pack is free to use as part of your
games and other interactive applications, but it must not be redistributed, whether altered or
unmodified, as part of a larger asset pack without permission. See License.txt for more info.

If you would like to, a credit to "Shallow Thinking Games" would be appreciated, but this is not
necessary. If you use these materials in a commercial project, a donation would be welcome but
is not compulsory.

The core of this texture set was originally created from scratch or from source photos in
Photoshop in 2002. The set has been extensively expanded for this 2025 re-release, primarily
using Krita for retouching and some rendered elements to create the bounce pads. Every texture
has been updated at least slightly from the initial version. No generative AI was used in the
creation of these textures.

The textures are included in three formats:

TGA files: These are mainly intended for anyone making Quake 3 maps or other games using that
engine, which originally only supported TGA and JPG. An example .shader file is included for
anyone using that engine or its cousins, you'll probably have to fiddle with them a bit.

PNG files: This is a more widely used format today and probably most suitable for modern engines
and software.

Reduced scale and palette PNG files: Pre-scrunged textures for anyone wanting an even more
crunchy retro pixelated look.

Usage notes:

The majority of these textures are intended for use as walls and/or floors and should tile nicely
over large surfaces. Repeating every two to four metres should work fine as none really have any
scale-specific details. In Quake 3 terms: Default scaling i.e. 2 texels per world unit.

The "light" textures are intended to indicate light fixtures and are best mapped onto smaller
objects, or cut as insets into wider surfaces. The "glow" light textures were a method Quake 3
used as an additive layer to get overbrights. In other engines you can put this into the
material for one of the light textures as a straight additive stage if you want to, e.g. pipe it
into the emissive input on your material.

The "bounce" textures are for Quake 3 style jump pads, but you can use them for whatever you
like, I'm not your boss. They can be used as-is, or you can add the "glow" and "ring" effect
stages for the full effect. In Quake 3 the "glow" stage would have a slight Sine wave applied to
its RGB values and go in as an additive layer to get a gentle pulsing light effect, but you can
also just have it is a constant emissive stage. The "ring" was another additive stage which had
a sawtooth wave applied to scale its clamped UVs, giving the effect of an energy wave that
radiates from the centre then disappears.